Hello, colleagues! My name is Natalia Volodina. I am the Director of the Silvana Fashion Group's Holdings.
Today we will talk about competences. We will define this concept.
We will also talk about what a corporate model of competences is
and when it is appropriate to develop individual competences profiles for the positions that exist in our organizations.
We will talk about the stages of developing a competences model in the company,
how to plan this project and form a project team,
how to design a competences model and develop the development levels of each of the competences,
how to form an individual competences profile for the positions.
After that, we will talk a little about how to implement a competences model
so that the model we develop does not become a ballast that is owned only by the staff.
It does not work, is not used by the line managers and employees of our companies.
Therefore, we talk about how to best use the competences model
when evaluating, when holding evaluation events,
when forming development plans, personnel reserves, and so on.
At the end, we will say a few words about why competences models do not always work
and what needs to be done to make our model viable.
If you ask a question about what competences is,
I suggest that each of you answer this question for yourself, what exactly do you understand.
Most often, they answer that it is some kind of knowledge or skills,
that it is skills, and so on.
In fact, there are a lot of definitions,
and each consultant and staff management specialist strives to give their own definition.
But if we look at the slides you see,
where a number of definitions of this term, given by various authors, are given,
in each of them we will see the word behavior,
behavioral indicators, or behavior model, and so on.
Behavior is a key word in this definition.
I will give the following example.
Our employee knows, can, and drives a car well, but he does not.
Can we talk about the presence of competences?
Of course we can.
There is competence, but it is not demonstrated.
There is no work behavior that can be interesting to the company.
If this employee, for example, is an accountant,
it is not his main duty to drive a car.
So we close our eyes to this,
and by and large we do not require him to demonstrate such behavior in a working situation.
But if this is a driver, then the question arises whether we need him.
The fact is that we, as employers, acquire employees,
let's say, we acquire their competences.
We are interested in the behavior that they demonstrate in work,
the business behavior that leads to the achievement of those results,
those goals that lie ahead.
Another example.
For example, we have a chief engineer who is a very strict leader.
For example, employees from his department may even be a little bit tired of his style of leadership.
If we talk about whether he knows, can he manage people,
he can tell us, I have been doing this for 30 years, what else can I teach?
And maybe he really knows the principles of modern management, but he does not.
Therefore, once again, competence is, first of all, knowledge, skills, skills,
some personal qualities, perhaps, motivational statements that are expressed through behavior.
Personal qualities, again, do not sound easy to determine,
because there are such competences that we will call as undeveloped,
that it is very difficult to develop them,
and that, let's say, they depend mostly on what kind of person you really are.
But we will talk about all this in more detail a little further.
What is a competence model?
A competence model is a complete set of competence behavior indicators
that allow the employee to successfully perform his or her work functions.
The model, first of all, should be clear and easy to understand.
What is the understanding?
Employees.
Because it is the employees and the top managers
who have to work with the competence model.
This is their tool, and we, as a staff, create this tool together with them and for them as well.
The model should be described in simple language and have a simple structure.
If the model is complex, it is difficult to perceive, difficult to use.
Let's pay attention to the next slide.
Competence map, organization or corporate competence model.
What do we see?
Individual competence or individual profile of the position that we form
and which we will evaluate our employees.
What does it consist of?
How does it work?
First of all, there is a part of competence that we call corporate competence.
Corporate competence is a competence that can be applied to any position in the organization,
regardless of the hierarchy.
Whether it is the first person in the organization or a private employee.
Corporate competence is based on the company's values.
What is the company's answer to this question?
Are we like this?
Are we a team?
Or are we always focused on the result?
Or are we always client-oriented because we work in a service business?
The company's values can be either recorded in some corporate documents,
such as the strategy or the corporate ethics code.
Maybe not.
The company may be small in size and such documents do not exist.
Nevertheless, it is what is in the air.
Let's recall the situation when we were conducting an interview
and taking candidates for a certain position.
We noted that this is a professional person.
He knows and has the professional competences that we need.
But something is wrong with him.
He is not ours.
He will not survive in the department where we want to invite him.
Maybe he is very ambitious, he is focused on the result,
he is very active in achieving his goals.
At the same time, in this department, in our entire company,
corporate culture is characterized by such concepts as team spirit,
as cooperation.
It may turn out that this person will not be comfortable working with us.
Or vice versa.
We are active, ambitious, we always run forward, forward, forward.
And the candidate who comes demonstrates a different behavior.
He is a team player.
He may not survive with us.
We say that this is our intuition.
It seems to us so.
Now we can say that his behavior, his values do not correspond
to the corporate competences that exist in our company.
The number of such competences may be different,
but most often from 3, 4 to 6, 7.
No more.
Because the total number of competences in our model
can also be different.
But most often in the company practice,
it is somewhere from 8 to 12 competences that are really working.
It is important to remember the following.
The development of corporate competences is part of working with corporate culture.
When we understand and we want to materialize and explain in words,
formalize those values that exist,
in order to select employees based on these competences,
to stimulate these competences, to develop, to encourage this behavior.
So, let's go back to our slide,
the organization competences map.
We talked with you about corporate competences.
But the next type of competences is management competences.
Management competences are competences that are necessary for the leaders
to successfully achieve business goals.
Competences are developed for employees engaged in management activities.
And, what is important, for employees who have subordinates.
But the subordination can be both linear or direct, and also project.
What does it mean?
It means that if we have a task to select the project manager,
we will analyze not only his professional competences,
as a co-foundation in the area in which the project will take place,
but we will also evaluate his management competences,
how much he can manage the project and the project team.
Most often, according to the experience of colleagues,
management competences are standard in various areas.
And such components are included as vision or business management,
working with people and organization of activities.
In our practices, in our companies,
these competences can be called in different ways.
And we will talk about how to call a competency.
And the fact that I can call a company work with people,
you will call a work in a team.
Can it be the same?
Of course it can.
And we will talk about it further.
It is important to understand that, most often,
management competences are laid out in these three areas.
The next is professional competences.
Professional competences are competences that are applicable
to a certain group of positions.
Groups of positions.
It can be financial specialists,
it can be sales department specialists,
it can be personnel specialists.
Yes, again, we are talking about a group of positions.
Composition of professional competences is a very laborious
and long process that can take years.
I do not want to scare you, but there are not so many companies
in which professional competences are developed for all groups of positions.
Which group of positions do professional competences start to develop?
Most likely, it is the main group of positions.
The main key business group of positions.
If it is a trading company,
then the professional competences of the personnel service
will start to develop for the sales department specialists.
Because it is, let's say, an earning group.
If it is a production company,
then professional competences will start to develop
for the employees of the production unit.
Because it is these employees we pay more attention to.
These are our key employees.
And these key units are serviced by them.
Such as accounting, IT and personnel service.
And if it is an IT company,
then IT specialists will become the key group
and professional competences will be developed for them.
In some companies there are so-called collections
of single corporate requirements,
in which professional competences are prescribed.
And, in principle, this is a very good solution
when you have really reached the end.
And you have prepared it well in your company.
Let's go back to the slide
of the organization competence map.
We talked with you about corporate competences,
professional and management.
It is from them that individual competences are formed
or an individual profile of a position.
Let's see what we see on the slide
of the organization competence map.
On the left we see the hierarchical levels
of the organization on the Y axis.
That is, all positions,
starting from an ordinary employee or a performer,
ending with a top manager.
Let's look at the map and try to understand
what competences will be, for example,
in the training manager,
as one of the employees of the personnel management.
What competences will be his profile of a position?
Let's see.
The training manager is, most likely, a performer.
This is an employee who does not have other subordinates.
Thus, he will have a large set of professional competences.
A large set.
There will be everything related to his work.
About whether he knows how to do it,
how he does it, how he develops training,
how he conducts them,
how he evaluates their effectiveness, and so on.
How it is necessary to be successful in this position.
And also a set of corporate competences.
After some time, our training manager
grows to the head of the training department.
And what do we see?
Let's see.
We see that the corporate competences
remain the same set, in the same composition.
But now he needs a little less professional competences,
because a block of management competences has appeared.
He has now become a manager.
Now he has people in his behavior.
He needs to set tasks, control them.
He needs to manage his team.
Well, our training manager,
already the head of the training department,
is going up the career ladder.
Now he becomes the director of the training center
or the director of personnel development.
What do we see?
We see that the block of management competences
now dominates over the professional ones.
He is, first of all, a manager.
He may remember, and probably remembers,
and recalls the times when he conducted trainings
for various groups.
But now his main task is to plan training
and to form a training system in the organization.
Thus, his block of management competences is very large.
He has fewer professional ones.
And the corporate one is still in the same composition,
in the same amount, which was from the very beginning.
Thus, we can lay out on this map
the list of all our employees.
Once again, I would like to draw your attention
to the fact that corporate competences are the same for everyone.
Management competences are the same for all managers in the organization.
And professional competences change
depending on the group of positions.
And those professional competences,
which will be developed for the management of personnel,
will naturally differ from the professional competences
of the financial service,
logistics department, marketing department, and so on.
I suggest to do the following.
The distribution materials have two examples,
which describe the mission and values of two companies.
The first company is called Novacare.
It is a pharmaceutical company.
The next one is a metallurgical holding,
a large holding, which operates in our country.
I suggest to complete the following task.
Get acquainted with what these companies write about themselves.
What values do they declare,
when they address the external environment.
And try to formulate,
being an external expert in relation to these companies,
try to formulate the list of corporate competences,
which can be from your point of view in these companies.
What behavior is valuable in these companies?
Try to formulate it.
We have already mentioned competences several times.
Let's make a definition.
Competence profile or employee competence map.
Individual reference model of competences,
necessary for the success of a particular position.
The profile is useful for the following reasons.
The various positions and positions
imply a different level of competence development.
If we have defined one of our competences as a team work,
or team work,
then, depending on the position,
a different level of competence development is required.
If it is an ordinary employee,
then he must be able to be a team player.
He should not resist team work.
If it is a manager,
he should be able to be a team player or a team member.
He should be able to develop this team,
form it, combine it.
If it is a top manager,
he should be able to manage a group of teams,
because there will be several teams in the organization.
To remain relevant,
these profiles should be reviewed.
We will remember this when we talk about evaluation events.
The competence model is not something we have developed today
and will work with it for the next 10 years.
Not at all.
Whether it is a competence model or a more narrow competence profile,
it should be reviewed anyway.
The external environment changes,
the situation inside the company changes,
new goals are set.
It is important to understand what behavior is valuable today.
It is important to constantly review it
and at least agree that yes,
what we have determined,
the competencies we have determined for ourselves,
they still remain a priority for us.
The question is when to do it.
We will talk about it when we get to the evaluation procedures,
because the review and update of the competence profiles
is necessary to do before the evaluation
during the preparation events.
So, the development of the model is a long-term project and resource-intensive.
I mean not only money,
but also time and effort of all specialists involved in this process.
It is necessary to understand what our organization will get
except for a set of competencies
that will work or not.
Maybe not for ourselves, but for the higher management.
We will report what we have.
First of all, the company applies competencies
to achieve the compliance of the actions.
It is very important that already by accepting the employee
and conducting an interview when selecting candidates,
we begin to evaluate people
according to the competencies that exist.
It is easier to find a language for the employee,
the staff and the line manager.
Because the line manager does not say
that he did not like something,
that he did not feel something.
He says that everything is fine,
but he does not have these professional competencies.
Or their level of development is very low
and he will not fit into my team.
This coordination of actions allows the company
to be more mobile, more flexible.
And the use of competencies in all directions,
in all policies, procedures, services, staff
is a huge help.
The next important advantage is that
there is an opportunity to exchange information with employees.
When the employee becomes aware of the corporate norms and rules,
how it happens here, what we are,
if we talk about corporate competencies.
The employee also begins to receive feedback
about his activity.
When he receives a development plan,
where we write to him that everything is fine,
but these two competencies need to be improved.
The employee becomes aware of what we demand from him.
And he perceives the next evaluation event
as an opportunity to change the situation
for the better, perhaps for promotion.
And not as a kind of, let's say,
he perceives without fear.
He is not afraid that something will be unclear.
It is necessary to experience it.
And is it worth experiencing in this company?
Is it easier to simply change the company?
The next plus, the next benefit that the company gets
are the high standards of quality and efficiency
that you set when developing competencies.
After all, it is important to understand
when we talk about development levels,
what we consider the maximum,
how much we achieve this maximum,
what we consider the minimum.
Therefore, we constantly talk about this,
and we want it or not,
but we will most likely do it with you.
We will always set the highest standard
that is necessary,
especially when it comes to professional competencies.
In working with clients,
if they are employees of the sales department.
In training, if it is a training manager.
In organization and implementation of logistics works,
if it is the logistics department.
Colleagues, we talked with you about what competencies are,
what a competency model is,
what competencies are corporate, management, professional.
We said a few words about the competencies profile.
Now let's talk about what needs to be done
to have all this.
We are starting to talk about the development of a competency model.
First, it is important to remember
that there is no standard competency model.
Unfortunately, it does not exist.
What are the options we have in case
we have such a task?
The first option is to look somewhere, to someone,
to see what competencies are developed by someone.
From this list, choose what suits us.
The question is whether this method is better.
Of course, no.
But this does not mean that this method is not applicable in our practice.
It all depends on those goals, on that time,
on those time resources,
on the time restrictions that we have.
And we must understand that
we all come to competencies in different ways.
Someone does it this way because it is the optimal way in his conditions.
The next method is the development of a competency model,
which is called from A to I.
When in this project,
and this project is recognized in the company as quite serious,
it is not that the staff does something in the evenings,
maybe not in the evenings, but maybe at work,
maybe in the afternoon or after lunch,
goes to the managers,
and the managers no longer know that they come again, ask something, and so on.
It is important that this is a project that includes both staff and linear managers.
It is also important that the top management organization knows about this project
and there is support.
Because, once again, the project is quite resource-intensive,
and the strength and time of the employees are distracted by its implementation.
When the company understands that a competency model is necessary,
situations can be different.
I will tell you about my experience.
In 2003, the company I worked for began an active regional expansion.
In different cities of Russia,
located thousands of kilometers from each other,
we were looking for regional representatives,
that is, those people who can represent people,
represent the company, I'm sorry, in the region.
And we must understand that the level of development of regions was completely different.
And so it was not a single portrait of the person we were looking for.
It all depended on the level of development of the business in the company in the region,
and therefore people could be different in their competencies.
Working actively together with the head of the regional department,
we once again made up a profile,
we did not even call it a profile,
but a kind of application for the selection of a specialist.
And the head, perhaps a little bit of a joke, said,
listen, you know a man named Petrov,
and Petrov was one of the specialists who worked in one of the regions.
He worked for a long time, he was a star of such a regional scale.
He said, you know what, I said yes, I know him.
He said, I don't need this, I need Petrov, but two years ago.
What does it mean?
It means that, in other words, there were certain competencies,
which this employee had, let's say, their level of development was very high.
And, in principle, this was not required for the region where we were looking for now.
It's good if you still knew who Petrov was and how he ran the business,
and what we understand under this.
And if this is covered by the selection manager,
who has never seen Petrov before.
This suggests that there was a need, a need in a certain single language.
That this Petrov should be divided into various competencies,
and say which of his competencies are needed for a future employee.
Let's say, in Yekaterinburg, yes, which employee do we need in Novosibirsk,
which employee is needed in Khabarovsk, and so on and so forth.
This was a reason for the staff of our company to think about
where exactly that language is, and whether competencies can become them.
Let's say, there were not very many tools and sources at that time.
Then only one book on competencies was published in Russian.
Therefore, first of all, we analyzed the information that was on the Internet.
And on the Internet we found such very interesting information,
which was called a competency guide.
But here we decided that having received this guide,
we will quickly form our own, because we will take from there what we need,
or we will take even all the competencies, because this is a guide.
And we will work with them.
When we received this guide, there was a feeling of disappointment,
because it was just a list of competencies, good competencies,
but these competencies were not about us, because not everything somehow fit,
and it was not about the company, and not about Petrov.
And so it became clear that it was necessary to go your own way.
Someone has a long way, someone has a fast way,
someone has it easier, and someone has no time to do it for a long time.
In order to formulate exactly those standards of behavior that are valuable to us.
Thus, developing your own model of competence,
each company gets an advantage.
Once again, a language appears that is understandable to employees
and corresponds to corporate culture.
And the fact that each company plays by its own rules
is reflected in the model that the company creates.
When preparing a project for developing a model of competence,
it is important to remember the following.
First, you need to attract employees to the project who will use this model.
Involving colleagues, involving employees of different units in the project
does not mean that you should attract everyone at all stages.
But this means that involvement can be limited to informing people
about the goals and purposefulness of this project.
And also including a number of specialists from various departments in the working group.
So that people participate, people understand, they feel that they also created this.
That this is not just a product developed by the staff,
albeit very high quality, but nevertheless brought in from the outside.
After all, they are from their point of view,
which they need to use for some reason.
The next thing is to provide employees with complete information
about why and what is happening in the company.
Why is the model of competence created?
How will it be developed?
How will competencies be used in work?
Because it is the information of employees that prevents their possible resistance.
If I don't understand something, then I'm probably against it.
Because what else can you expect?
As an example, I will give a story from the experience of one colleague,
who works as a director of staff in the managing company of a large metallurgical holding.
Some time ago, their company acquired another plant,
which entered this holding.
And they decided that it was necessary to integrate the employees of this plant
into the corporate culture of the holding.
And they began to conduct research aimed at understanding
what are the corporate competencies of this event.
They invited consultants, began to interview managers, employees,
conduct interviews.
What did the employees who experienced stress of absorption of their enterprise to others, not to their relatives,
the first thing they encountered was an interview
and some actions taken against them.
They were absolutely unclear why this was necessary.
There was a rumor that based on such interviews, people will be fired,
and the rest of the people will be fired.
It is clear that rumors spread quickly,
and all this resulted in the fact that several people decided not to wait
until they will be interviewed, but simply to quit the company.
And it's good that in the staff service there was a person who asked himself the question,
why suddenly different people from different departments,
suddenly, after the unification of the company,
and not before, began to file a resignation letter.
And it turned out that, by and large, the lack of information of employees,
not paying attention to this,
could lead to the fact that the company would lose those specialists who were important to it.
The next principle that is important to understand when developing a model of competence
is that it is important that the standards of behavior included in the competence
suit all users,
and the assumed form of application corresponds to corporate value.
It is important that competencies should focus not only on what is valuable today,
but also should take into account what will be important for us tomorrow.
Because we must constantly focus on the future,
and not on the strategic goals that lie ahead of our companies.
I would like to draw your attention to the slide,
which shows the stages of development of the competence model.
Let's list them.
First of all, we plan the project, we prepare it.
We describe the desired result that we want to get,
we analyze the resources that are at our disposal.
After that, we create a project team.
We begin to understand who will be involved in the development of the competence model.
The third stage is the longest in terms of time,
the most difficult stage.
Because at this stage, information is collected and analyzed,
information about the behavior that exists in the company,
how people work today.
The result of this stage is a list of competencies.
At the fourth stage, we develop the levels of each of the competencies.
At the fifth stage, we form competence profiles for specific positions.
Let's go over everything in order.
So, the first stage is planning the project.
It would seem that at this stage everything is clear.
We need to do something, we begin to do it.
Most likely, we have some kind of time limit.
But the first question we should answer is
why does our company need a competence model?
What does it mean?
There are two approaches to developing a competence model.
The first one is when we solve a specific task that is in front of us.
For example, we need to form a personnel reserve,
select people and develop individual development plans.
Or we need to select a large number of people
and we need to meet the common requirements that we will propose.
This is the first case.
The second case is when we develop a competence model
knowing that it will become a core part of the personnel management system.
All the areas of the personnel service,
be it selection, assessment, training, and so on,
will be tied and integrated with each other.
Most often, they start with the first one and move on to the second one.
They start with a small piece, developing a competence model for a specific task,
and then they understand that they need to work on it
and understand which direction to move in
to get a single model for the whole organization.
Now we will talk about the second way
of developing a single model of corporate competences.
Nevertheless, each of you may face the fact
that you will need to develop, for example,
only management competences to form a reserve.
Or you will need to develop professional competences
for a specific group of positions.
You will start with this and in the future,
you will move on to get a single corporate competence model.
So, we have answered the question
of how our model will be used,
when it will be integrated,
and what policies and procedures it will be used for.
The next important point is management support.
How much are the top managers or management interested in the project?
How much do they understand that it is necessary?
Because, once again,
the distinction between resources will be from the current activity.
It is important to understand what we want to achieve.
This project must be sold to the top managers,
who will be involved and for whom we develop this tool.
The project will be successful only when the top managers
will start using this tool.
The next question we answer at the first stage is
how much time do we have?
It is great if we can answer this question ourselves
and we are not limited by any time.
Most often, time is limited.
From my experience, I can say that this project
cannot be done in a week.
Most likely, it is impossible,
if you do not close all the doors,
close yourself inside and do nothing
except developing competences.
Most often, it takes from one to three months.
Someone has a project that lasts six months.
Once again, the duration of the project
depends on the degree of involvement of the participants in its development.
How much time do we devote to this in a week?
How often do we conduct work groups with employees?
Do we have special people who work only within this project?
Or is it an additional load
of involvement in the project to the current activity?
A lot depends on this.
Therefore, it is necessary to plan and understand
what the duration of the project depends on.
The next step is to create a project group.
It is important to understand who will lead the project.
There is no right answer to this question.
In some organizations, it is a director of staff.
In some organizations, it is a general director.
On the one hand, it is strange,
because the general director's involvement
will be minimal.
On the other hand, in those companies
where the authority is very strong,
it is necessary to get it in an ally,
so that the employees understand
who is the guide of this project.
Most often, in large organizations,
it is someone from the staff, and not always HR director.
Next, it is necessary to understand
who else will be included in the project team.
The project team once again manages the project.
It is important not to confuse project groups with working groups.
Working groups are groups that are formed
to solve certain tasks at certain stages of the project.
If we collect information at the third stage,
we can form 5 working groups of various specialists
of various departments.
A member of the project team can lead a working group,
can be included in it.
At this stage, we must understand
who will enter the project team and lead the project,
who will work in the working groups,
who will perform the most difficult work
on the collection and analysis of information.
By the way, for those companies
where the staff is either small
or does not have the competencies
in the field of information collection and analysis,
for example, there are no sociologists or psychologists,
for various reasons,
I recommend at this stage to attract specialists from the outside,
namely to determine the implementation
of specific projects,
not for the entire project, but for specific tasks.
At the second stage of creating a project group,
it is necessary to determine who, when and how we will need.
Colleagues, now I propose to do the following.
Analyze the needs that your companies have.
If the topic of developing a competence model
has interested you, then you need it.
Turn around, look and try to answer
the questions for yourself,
which are formulated on the slides with the first and second stages.
Planning of the project.
1. Explaining the goal.
Why does our company need a competence model?
How will this model be used?
1. Leadership.
2. Temporary resources.
3. Creating a project.
Who will lead the project?
How many people will be included in the working group?
Who will collect and analyze the information?
Why do you need this?
How will your company be used?
How will it be used in the project group?
Try to formulate and answer these questions.
It will be a good foundation for the future project.
2. Designing a competence model.
As I said, this is the longest stage,
the most laborious.
Because it is necessary to collect information,
to analyze it.
The result of this stage is the formation of a list of competencies.
So, collecting information.
Our goals.
1. We need to collect examples of behavior standards,
which ensure effective performance of the work.
2. We need to determine the standards
that may be required for effective performance of the work in the future.
Where can we get this information?
We need to collect the information
and analyze it.
3. We need to understand how the company works today,
what kind of work behavior is stimulated by the company,
and what actions lead to effective performance of the work.
First of all, we have a number of sources
from which we can get this information.
Some sources answer the question who,
the other part answers the question what.
If we talk about who we need in this project,
we need to understand who is responsible for the work.
We need to ask the employees themselves
how they do their job,
what they do to achieve these results.
We can ask the employees about their colleagues,
we can ask the managers,
we can ask the clients
if we work in the service business,
in the business of the company.
We can ask the employees about their colleagues,
if they work with us for a long time,
they can answer the questions
what behavior, what actions
they evaluate as excellent.
The next important source of information
that is often forgotten is the mentors and the coaches.
They should be asked.
If they are mentors in production,
their work is about the work of the coaches.
If we have a training center,
the programs are developed to improve the professionalism
of our employees,
to develop their professional competencies.
These are the people,
these are the categories of employees
from which we need to start
and involve in the project team.
The next part of the sources answers the question
what are the documents?
What documents?
Of course, it all depends on what documents we have.
It is important to remember that there is always
a number of documents at the level of the entire enterprise.
Someone has a strategic plan, a business plan,
it is formulated strategic goals if it is a public company.
It is a mission, it is a corporate code,
it is a business plan, etc.
There are companies where there is nothing,
where everything is there, but nothing works.
We should approach the tools that are used by employees
in their daily activities.
Thus, documents at the company level,
documents at the level of the division,
and documents at the level of the employee.
This is a duty instruction, for example,
and so on.
Maybe someone will say that our duty instructions do not work.
They were written many years ago,
and now they are waiting for guests from the labor inspection.
It happens.
But even in such companies, for example,
there may be a memory of the cashier's salesman
how to work with the buyers.
From this memory, we will draw information
about how our company provides effective performance of the work of the cashier,
that is, quality service of the buyers and visitors.
So, we have determined the sources that are in our disposal.
Now a few words about the methods of collecting information.
These are various methods.
It can be an analysis of the work or observation of the employee's activity.
It can be a survey of the employees' activities.
It can be a survey or an interview.
It can be a focus group of brainstorming,
a working group of employees and managers.
It is important for us to understand what methods are applicable
in our particular case to work with a certain group of employees.
It is clear that we can use the observation method
for the salesman in the sales hall,
but we will not be able to observe the accountant
to collect the behavior standards
that he uses in his work.
The survey is a very difficult thing.
It is difficult to formulate complex and incomprehensible questions
about the qualities of an employee's ability
to be successful in a certain position
in a certain survey.
It is possible, but probably not necessary.
Because by filling out such survey lists,
employees can simply unsubscribe
and we will not get the valid information that we need.
The best way is an interview.
It is a conversation.
It is a situation when we prepare the questions that we need.
Even if we somehow lead the employee to the answers that we need,
we get the information that we need.
In addition to the interview,
the next most frequently used questions
are the questions that we ask the employee.
The next most frequently used tool
is the holding of work groups.
Work groups are within one unit.
Work groups are for, say, a one-level manager.
Work groups are for employees of two units
so that they can evaluate each other
if they are very active in their activities.
There are several other methods
that help us a lot during this project.
This is the method of repertory grids,
the method of critical incidents,
the method of direct attributes.
Let's open them and see what it is.
The method of repertory grids is as follows.
The head of the unit fills out a table.
We can present the information in the form of such a table
in which the names of his subordinates are listed vertically.
There may be key employees
if the unit is very large.
The above are the skills and qualities
that are required for successful work.
The head fills out and describes
how each of the subordinates
shows the skills and qualities that are necessary.
It turns out that someone does well.
For example, if this is the head of the sales department
and he fills out this table for sales managers,
we see that someone best establishes
and establishes partnerships with the client,
establishes relations.
He best negotiates meetings by phone.
Another employee does the presentation
because he knows the product,
benefits, advantages of the product or service.
Someone works with objections.
Thus, we get a solution
and a grid.
Therefore, the method of repertory grids
includes various examples of the behavior of employees
among which we can choose
how successful they are.
It is not necessary that they belong to someone.
Thus, we are the developers of this project
and get a matrix with behavior standards.
It is important to note that
when filling out such tables,
such grids, it is important to help the head
or explain very well how and what he needs to do.
Because later
we will check the behavior standards
during the working group,
in which those employees may be present.
The employees described in this table
will be attended by the same head, possibly by the client.
We will constantly check the validity of the information
during the whole stage.
We will check how valuable and objective the information is.
The next method is the method of critical incidents
that allows us to determine
the behavioral reactions
that were important in a certain critical situation.
We organize and conduct a structured interview
for employees, their leaders, their colleagues,
asking them to tell about a situation
that really happened in their work.
In such cases,
either a serious mistake was made
or an important success was achieved.
We will also ask them about their actions
and how they behaved in order to succeed.
Or vice versa, if there was a mistake,
what they did not do in that case
and how they behaved in that situation.
The next method is the method of direct attributes.
Within this method,
the line leaders are offered
a description of the ready competencies.
We ask them to evaluate them
and compare them in pairs
to determine the most important ones.
This method is good to use
when you have already formulated competencies
and have already gone a long way
for testing them.
It will be very interesting
if the competencies that you have recognized as important
are not chosen by the top managers
and they say that this is not the most important thing in their work.
This is a kind of verification.
We have said several times
that we ask such questions to our employees or managers.
You will get the answer to the question you ask.
But we need a definite answer.
We need an answer about standard behaviors.
So, what do we ask?
We always formulate a list of questions at home.
We are always preparing for this.
As an example, what kind of question can it be?
We can ask what qualities should an employee have
to be successful in his or her position?
In response to this question,
we will get a list of qualities,
characteristics,
knowledge about what is necessary
for success in the position we are analyzing.
Our next question will be
how it will be manifested at the behavioral level.
If competencies are behavior,
then you need to know something and be able to do something.
Therefore, we introduce the interviewer
to the behavior level.
How will it be expressed
in the daily activities of the employee?
The next question that must be asked
is whether the selected competencies are really important.
Maybe the employees have these competencies,
but it is not the case
that they are the most important.
It is good that we have it,
but it is important to define the priority.
The next important question is
whether we can collect information
to evaluate the employee on these competencies.
For example,
very often companies define such a competency
as loyalty.
This is a very valuable competency.
It is often related to the category of corporate.
Very often companies say that it is important
that our employees are loyal to us.
Only then this competency can be recognized
and voiced as a corporate competency.
When you have decided for yourself
how you will understand whether an employee is loyal or not.
He says about it,
but he is not loyal.
Someone is silent,
but in his actions he shows a high level of loyalty.
This is necessary to answer at the stage of collecting information.
Can we collect it or not?
How will we collect it?
Because later, having this information,
it will be easier for us to formulate
the competencies that we will choose as the main ones
The next step in this stage is
the analysis of the information.
If we did everything right and qualitatively,
we collected a large amount of information.
What do we need to do?
We need to analyze
what is priority and what is not.
We need to develop a general structure of the competency model.
We need to develop the priorities that are necessary.
My recommendation is that
this work is done in the framework of additional working groups
that are made up of the most active participants
who have shown themselves at the stage of collecting information.
My recommendation is to duplicate the work.
What does it mean?
It means that you conduct one, two or even three working groups
that are dedicated to the same issue.
It is necessary to develop a list of competencies.
All three groups are developed in the same list of competencies
so that later, having presented their results to each other,
they can discuss and come to a consensus.
This method works very well
when you work with a group of linear leaders
and formulate corporate competencies.
By dividing the linear leaders into several groups
and suggesting each of the groups
to determine the corporate competencies
that you will include in the future model,
you will see how the leaders,
having first joined the work within their group,
will either protect their developments
or accept others' work.
In any case, it is necessary to reach a compromise
by discussing it within the entire group.
Therefore, we must duplicate the analytical work.
After that, we discuss.
After that, we choose a name.
The name should be short and concise.
The name of the competency should characterize
its future content as much as possible.
It is important to understand that each company is unique
and each company has its own language.
There are many disputes about the competence of leadership.
Some companies declare this competence
as a corporate one,
while others declare it as a managerial one.
Some companies declare leadership
as a concept that cannot be measured.
A person was born a leader or not.
There are no right or wrong.
It is important to understand how we have determined this competence.
When we talk about leadership,
we describe a competent leader
and, in fact, we fill it with the definition of the competence of work.
If we define it as a person,
a manager, a team manager,
it is our own choice.
The way we call it, the way we define it
is only our choice.
Thus, competencies that are called the same
in different companies can have completely different meanings
and describe completely different behavior.
At this stage,
we need to eliminate the repetition.
Competencies, what is important,
should not be crossed.
What does it mean to cross?
As an example, a company defines competence
as a professionalism.
Let's start with the fact that this competence is not quite clear.
Professionalism is a professional competence.
But there are companies that take it to the corporate level.
There is also a competence, for example,
as an orientation to development.
We value those who study, we study ourselves,
we create an environment in which our employees study.
On the one hand, these are two different competencies.
On the other hand, we must always understand what professionalism is.
Professionalism, when it is defined as a corporate competence,
that is, for all employees,
and does not carry a narrowly specialized direction,
is often understood as a skill to learn,
a desire to learn, to develop, and so on.
It may turn out that we are talking about the same thing,
although the competencies are called differently.
How to check?
It is very easy to check.
You need to find an employee who has,
and in general, answer the question,
whether this can be the case in our company,
if he is very professional,
but absolutely oriented to development.
If we cross these competencies,
we will answer that this cannot be the case.
If this cannot be the case, then the competencies are probably the same.
Can we check another competence,
an orientation to development and a team player?
Are these competencies different or similar?
We must remember a person who is oriented to development,
but at the same time not a team player.
Can it be so? Of course it can.
And vice versa. A person who is a team player,
who, let's say, sets the goals of the team above his own,
but at the same time is absolutely not oriented to development.
It can be so. And it can be so.
Thus, these competencies do not intersect,
and we can include both of these competencies in our model.
The next thing we do at this stage is to check validity.
This means that every time we understand and look at,
let's say, those lights, that compass,
that we are going the right way.
Are the employees who demonstrate competence
really doing their job more effectively
than those who do not demonstrate?
What does it mean?
It means that the competencies that we have recognized as priority,
are they really owned by those employees
who are successful today?
It should be so.
If it is different, and we made a mistake
and took the wrong direction, and prioritized the wrong competencies,
it will turn out that we will somehow get off the road
to a dead end, which is not clear where it will lead us.
Therefore, at the stage of the demo,
we always test and check.
After all, we wrote it down and took these behavior standards
from the activities of the best employees.
In general, the circle will close and everything should coincide.
But it is necessary to check every time.
Because if we define other priorities for our company,
it means that we will lead the company in a different direction,
that we will stimulate and develop some other behavior.
This can only be in one case,
if the company strategy has changed.
If yesterday we were aggressive, we seized the market,
we valued competencies from this area,
and today we said that the market is at our feet.
We are improving the quality, we are talking about the service, etc.
In this case, there may be a departure
from the main road to another road.
But only if we understand this initially and set it up initially.
If there were no such drastic changes in our strategy,
then again.
And those competencies that we have determined
must be consistent with the behavior
that our effective employees show in their work today.
As we have already said, the result of this stage
is a formulated list of competencies.
Let's look at the slides,
which show a number of examples
with corporate competencies models of various companies.
Let's look and comment on them.
At the first stage,
we see a model of competencies
consisting of 11 competencies,
which are divided into 3 clusters.
Under the clusters, competencies can be combined into one group.
Here we see 3 clusters.
Business development, achievement of results, work with people.
Please note that here we do not see a list of professional,
administrative and corporate competencies.
Most likely,
work with people will be administrative competencies
or at least leadership competencies.
Administrative competencies will include
business vision and goal setting
from the achievement of results cluster.
Please note that the presentation of the competency model
and its final formulation
are always our choice.
The next slide shows a model of competencies
which includes 8 competencies,
including 3 corporate competencies,
3 administrative competencies
and 3 professional competencies
for sales department employees.
The next slide shows a model of competencies
which includes 16 competencies
divided into 5 clusters.
This is a question of the limit of competencies.
Once again,
competencies should be as many as you can work with.
There are examples where competencies can be 4 or 5.
There can be competencies for employees or managers.
Once again,
this choice is made by each company
depending on the goals it set for itself
at the very beginning
and the tasks for which competencies were developed.
The more competencies a model has,
the more difficult it is to apply it.
It is difficult to highlight specific competencies
in an excessively detailed model
because the differences between individual competencies
in such a model can be incredibly small.
Therefore, do not chase a large number of competencies.
Do not say that you have 20,
or 18, or 15 competencies.
Formulate 10, but they are for employees.
You will use them in all policies and procedures
of the staff management.
You will use them during selection,
during evaluation activities.
You will develop competencies for employees
and develop them for them.
The next step is to develop the level of competencies.
The next step is to develop competencies for employees.
At this stage, we solve several tasks.
First, we determine
the level of competencies.
What are the options?
First, competencies can be undetailed
or simple.
Thus, the company sets a certain level
and a certain behavior
that is necessary for the company
Let's return to loyalty.
Loyalty can be difficult to break down by levels.
The company defines that a loyal employee
is the employee who does not harm the company.
Let him not shout about us at every corner.
Let him not walk around in the company's logos.
Let him not be a part of the company's activities.
Let him behave ethically towards the company.
Let him not speak out against the company's decisions.
It is a simple but undetailed competence.
But the company develops competencies
to understand
what is needed to take the next step.
Development programs are developed
to achieve the next level.
The question is, how many levels are needed?
You answer this question yourself
because there are no standard answers.
It can be 4 levels, 3 levels, 7 levels.
In my practice, I have encountered companies
that have a 7-level model of competence
consisting of 10 competencies
and it works perfectly
because everything is clearly defined.
So, how many?
Usually, it is 4 levels.
The next important step
is to define the minimum and maximum
level of competence development.
What is the minimum?
Let's look at the following slides
and see how it is defined.
Let's take the example of competence
of working with clients.
We can see that this competence
consists of 4 levels.
The first level is
a level of competence development
that corresponds to this level.
It can find a common language with people.
Can this behavior be sufficient
for a certain position in our organization?
Yes, it can.
It can be a beginner, a sales specialist.
Thus, we understand that this first level
is a working level, acceptable for us.
What about the first level
of competence and persistence?
Let's look at the first level.
A person can refuse a planned plan
when facing difficulties.
In some cases, his plans and projects
are unfinished.
He does not strive to overcome obstacles
in achieving goals,
and difficulties can stop him
from achieving his plans.
Can such a person be a member of our company?
Despite the fact that in competence and persistence
we see 3 levels of development,
we understand that the first level
is a non-working level.
It will never be acceptable for any position.
There will be 2 working levels.
The level of competence and the level of skill.
This is an example of a 3-level model
with 2 working levels.
This is an example of a 4-level model
with 4 working levels.
We need to determine
what the first level will be.
Will it be positive or negative?
How do our colleagues answer this question?
It is easier to start with working levels,
as in the case of competence
and working with clients.
This way we will make our lives easier
and will not formulate the non-working level
for all competencies in our model.
But we will understand that
if this is the first level,
we will always have a zero
when competence is not developed.
When even this is not required
at the initial level.
Other companies say
that they want to define
the working level
and explain to everyone
that if it does not correspond,
then do not mark anything
or do not put it on the axis.
Therefore, I formulate this zero level
for all competencies.
We answer this question.
We are talking about determining
the minimum level.
What is the most desirable for us?
What will be the 4th level
or the level of skill?
It is very important not to raise to heaven
that we do not have such people
and will never have them.
We can choose from the practice
or from the strong specialists.
We can say that these are our standards
and we would like all our employees
to behave in the same way.
Or if we do not have such specialists
for any reason,
then we define the desired level
and try to remain as objective as possible.
We want to have a level
where this level would be required
and it would be possible to develop
or find a person with such a level of competence.
The next step is to check the validity
or value of the level of competence
relative to real activity.
After determining the level,
the next step will be to form the profiles of positions.
We will arrange the profiles of positions
in relation to the levels.
Take a few positions from different areas
and put them on the profiles.
Does it work or not?
Does it work objectively or does it look strange
that all employees should have the highest level of development
in several positions?
Maybe something has not been worked out?
Maybe you have determined that the competencies
do not correspond to each other.
For example, by revealing the competence
of the orientation to development,
you have taken a very big step between levels.
By revealing the competence of working in a team,
you have taken small steps.
And, accordingly, the competencies are not valid
relative to each other.
The next step is a kind of reward.
Only those who have not turned the way
at the stages of formulating the list
and at the fourth stage of the level development
can reach it.
At this stage, we form the profiles of competencies
for specific positions.
Our goals.
First, we need to check
whether the competencies
exactly correspond to all the working roles
that exist in the company.
How do we do it?
We do not do it on our own.
It is important that the line managers do it,
the leaders of those units for which we form the profiles of positions.
If the line manager understands how to do it,
it means that we have developed a convenient model.
If he does not understand,
it means that we work together with him,
helping him and getting feedback.
If he cannot define a certain competence,
it may not be the most important competence.
We get answers to these questions
during this stage.
Ideally, we need to form the profiles of those positions
for which we will later carry out
evaluation activities.
This is the beginning.
This is the first and most important thing.
This is the project to be developed.
Ideally, it is the development of the profiles of positions
for all the positions of our company.
Pay attention to the following slides
where the profile of the position of the regional representative is given.
On two different slides,
you can see two options for presenting the profile of the position.
It can be either in the form of a table
in which the level of development is indicated.
In fact, with such a table,
you come to the line manager
and offer to define and create a profile
for the position of his unit,
when there is a list of competencies
and when there is a description of each of the levels
for each competence.
The manager, reading the profile,
understands what he wants to correspond to.
Another option is in the form of a web page.
This web page is very convenient to use
because at first we can put the required level of development
or the profile of the position on it,
and after the evaluation procedures,
we put the current level of development of our employees' competencies.
We can clearly see where there are some gaps.
Let's think about it.
In our example, there are 11 competencies.
If the level of development is lower for each of the three competencies,
it means that it is very clear
that these are the competencies that require development
and that development plans must be formed for these competencies.
The next slide shows the level of development of the position.
The level of development of the position is very high.
It means that development plans must be formed for these competencies.
Or vice versa.
When the current level of the employee exceeds the required level,
then it is a signal that this employee must be retained.
Or we include him in the personnel reserve.
But there are not always opportunities
for including him in the personnel reserve.
Therefore, in any case,
we must understand that the level of development of the competence
of the employee is very high
and we need to use it.
We can involve him as a mentor,
as a functional coach in our training project for other employees.
In any case, this is a signal
that the employee must be retained.
Unfortunately, this is the contradiction of our life.
First, we invest funds in the development of the competence of our employees.
If we are successful,
then we invest funds in the development of the competence of our employees.
If we are interested,
So, we have discussed our main actions
at various stages of the project
on the development of the competence model.
We have discussed the stage of preparation of the project
and the formation of the project team.
We have discussed what we do,
and we analyze the information at the stage of formulating the list of competencies.
The next stage is the development of the level of competence models.
And it all ends with the fact that we develop the profiles of the positions.